let's look @ enum, it is used for defining our own data types for example  i will take here enum day
day is the name of data type.
What are the values that it can have is Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday and Sunday.
where ever in my program I can declare a variable of type Day .
D.
So there's a variable of type day.
What are the values that day can have letter see D assigned one.
Can I have one.
No I cannot assign a value.
So can i assigned any numbers like this zero.
No.
But is it possible that I can assign Monday day like this yes I can assign only these values that I have
mentioned.
So what is the value of mon.
Let us print and check and cout d, Let me run the program and show you.
So Monday means zero so it is printing zero.
So it means if I give this value as Tuesday than what the value will be spending one.
So it means when I have defined enum.
Monday is assign with zero and this is one.
So definitely Wednesday will be two and thursday will be three and so on.
So it is assigning values to these.
So I directly say display Monday let us check instead of d.
I will say Monday.
So value of money is zero.
So I can use those values.
It means Mondays is like an identifier, so can i say monday plus plus
no cannot increment expression of enum type day.
So we cannot modify them so it means these are like constants.
Yes.
All these are set of constants under one name.
That is a day and I can declare the variable of type day and they can use those constant for these variables
and the constant starts from zero onward so 0 1 2 3 and so on.
So if I write anything like say if I write Friday then what the value will be.
Yes it is 4 so 0 1 2 3 and 4 Friday is  four now next thing, can I start
Monday with one.
If you start Monday with one what Tuesday will be, what wed will be, let's display all
these values and check them.
I will say this is Monday and copy paste these and change the values
yea I'm displaying all these values here.
So you know the order of that is from Monday to Sunday.
Let us run this now.
Monday's one so rest of the values are 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 so it means the starting point is one of them will
take the next value from one onwards.
If I give Monday as a 10 and what happens they will take the next values and ten 11 12 and so on.
So I'll make it one, back again.
Then on Thursday I will give it a 10.
Let us see what happens.
I have given Mondays one and Tuesday Wednesday and Thursday I have given 10, let's run, so Monday is one Tuesdays is2
Wednesday's three and Thursday as I have given value 10 here so it is starting from 10 11 12 and 13 so
it means I can give any value I want to these constants.
So can i say Tuesday assigned seven.
Let us check Tuesday's  7 so then Wednesday will be eight Yes Mondays one Tuesdays 7 and Wednesdays 8.
It means I can assign some values to these constants or leave them as it is.
They will be taking the values starting from zero on words instead of defining constants using hash
to define.
Say Monday is zero instead of instructors are instead of declaring Konst and Monday as a zero.
If I need constants like this or a symbolic constant not just one I need a set of constants then I can
define both sets of constants using enum.
So in them as you for defining a group of constants under one name that is related constants under one
name.
So that's the meaning of enum and in enum can be used for various purpose like see if I have enum
for the dept. that is department.
So one of the department is computer science that is C S Department or I.T. department or electronic
and communication department or mechanical department so I can define the departments like this.
Now these departments will take the codes from CS as zero and IT as one electronic is two mechanical it's
three and so on.
So if you so let them take the constant values from one onwards you can make CS is as one, rest of them
will be taking the following values.
So in this way I can define some constants and I can use them in the program.
The benefit of using the constant is that the program becomes readable.
See I can declare that the other type of type department and dept. and assign some department name.
So this becomes more readable.
That is the benefit of defining constant values.
So instead of using literals again using constants so that's all about enum.
Next I will talk about  type def.
Also let us talk about the typedef type, it is used for defining of our own data type or any idea
to some data type so that we can make the program more readable.
So the purpose of typedef is to make the program more readable.
Let us take example.
See type def integer as let us say max.
Now here anywhere in my program I can say marks as anyone come up and do so.
These are integer type variables I can assign any value to themm1 assign 50, m2 assign 90
90 I can assign some values to them.
So now m1 m2 are the variables of type marks.
And what is Marks, it is nothing but integer.
See if I write int here.
Then the problem is that I cannot make out what is the purpose of these two variables.
So while typing a very lengthy program.
I forget work for I have declared the variables even after a few days when I look at my program so it
will take time for me to understand what for I have declared these variables.
So instead of that if I use the meaningful name for data type then it is just a clear meaning that
m1 is of type marks and m2 is also  of type.
marks that is of type integer and otherwise I have to make documentation that is I have to write comments
that M one and M two are for storing marks
so I don't have to give these commands.
The statement itself speaks about the type of values that you are going to store in them.
So there is the benefit.
So it makes the program readable so it can be used very very glad is friendly for the programmer.
And that's it.
So you can try these things by yourself.